Specify alternative hash-to-field requirements. (#287)
cfrg/draft-irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve: draft-irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve.md

See {{security-considerations-targets}} for more details, and
{{new-suite}} for guidelines on choosing k for a given curve.

> The hash\_to\_field function described below may not be most efficient
> for all fields. For example, when hashing to an element of the extension

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Efficiency considerations in extension fields {#hashtofield-exteff}

The hash\_to\_field function described in this section is inefficient for certain
extension fields. Specifically, when hashing to an element of the extension
```

Reviewer: I think it might be better to add a separate subsection because otherwise I worry that this info gets lost...

Author: That works for me!

> field GF(p^m), hash\_to\_field requires expanding msg into m * L bytes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
field GF(p^m), hash\_to\_field requires expanding msg into m * L bytes (for L as defined above).
```

For extension fields where log2(p) is significantly smaller than the security
level k, this approach is inefficient: it requires expand\_message to output
roughly m * log2(p) + m * k bits, whereas m * log2(p) + k bytes suffices to
generate an element of GF(p^m) with bias at most 2^-k. In such cases, an
applications MAY use an alternative hash\_to\_field function, provided it
meets the following security requirements:

> - The function output MUST be a uniformly random field element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The function MUST output field element(s) that are uniformly random except with bias at most 2^-k.
```

Reviewer: The issue is, we've just gotten through saying that the function in this section outputs something with bias at most 2^-k---so it does not even meet the "uniformly random" requirement as stated here!

Author: 👍 thanks -- this precision is better!

- The function MUST NOT use rejection sampling.

- The function SHOULD be amenable to straight line implementations.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

For example, Pornin {{P20}} describes a method for hashing to GF(9767^19) that meets
these requirements while using fewer output bits from expand\_message than
hash\_to\_field would for that field.
```

Reviewer: P20 is:

```
  P20:
    title: "Elliptic Curve Operations On Microcontrollers With Finite Field Extensions"
    target: https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/009
    date: 2020
    author:
      -
        ins: T. Pornin
        name: Thomas Pornin
        org: NCC Group
```

    2. For expand\_message\_xmd ({{hashtofield-expand-xmd}}) with SHA3-256,
       HASH\_ID is "XMD:SHA3-256".

> Suites that use an alternative hash\_to\_field function that meets the requirements
> in {{hashtofield-exteff}} MUST indicate this by choosing a unique identifier for HASH\_ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Suites that use an alternative hash\_to\_field function that meets the requirements
  in {{hashtofield-exteff}} MUST indicate this by appending a tag identifying that function
  to the HASH\_ID field, separated by a colon (":", ASCII 0x3A).
```

Two suggestions:

(1) add indentation to keep this as part of the bulleted list, and

(2) "choosing a unique identifier" is not quite explicit enough, because it's not clear what it needs to be different from.

Author: > 👍 this looks great, with one small comment. What do you think of the suggested edit?

This works for me!
